>> Richard feldman: Building HTTP
responses.
In this section, we're going to start
building our actual static web server.
We're not gonna start by having it up and
running, listening on port 8080, whatever.
We're just gonna do it a much simpler way,
where at first we're just
gonna work with strings.
So we're gonna build HTTP responses first,
and then the next section we're gonna work
with dealing with the incoming HTTP
requests, still just working with strings.
Then we're gonna get into file IO, cuz one
of the things that static web server needs
to do is to read the files off your disc.
And then finally, we're gonna get
to the network IO portion of this.
So for now, we're just gonna start
off working with strings and
learn a little bit more about how C
deals with string manipulation and
learn a little bit more
about the language as we go.
So we're gonna start off by
talking about numbers in memory.
Like what does that
actually look like in C.
Byte arrays, null-terminated strings,
and finally getting a strings length.
This might not seem like it should
be an advanced concept, but in C,
it's not as trivial as it
is in other languages.
In memory we have bits.
These are ones and zeros.
And essentially, these are what
the hardware sees in memory.
So you've got a whole bunch of ones and
zeros and
you can interpret these however you want.
The hardware doesn't really care if this
section of ones and zeros is conceptually
an integer or conceptually a string or
conceptually anything else.
The CPU just has instructions
that basically say like, hey,
tell me some ones and zeros and tell
me what operation you wanna do on them.
And I will make some new ones and
zeros for you.
So for example, you could say these
ones and zeros represent an integer, and
you ask the CPU, I want you to
add this to some other ones and
zeros that I also am
interpreting as an integer.
And it's like, sure, here are the ones and
zeros that come out of
adding those two together.
You could also say the same
exact pattern of ones and zeros.
Hey, CPU, please treat these
as a floating point number and
do floating point multiplication or
division on them, or something like that.
And the CPU is like, sure, you're the ones
and zeros that come out if you do that.
Or you could say, treat it as a string,
and I'm gonna do something else with it.
But most commonly, these ones and zeros
are actually grouped into groups of eight,
at least in modern hardware.
So 8-bits to a byte.
So 8 individual 1s and
0s correspond to 1-byte.
And in modern hardware,
this is sort of emerged as the standard,
where you basically have like,
if you're working with memory,
you're generally working
in terms of bytes.
When we specified 13 or 14 as the length
of the Hello World string in the last
exercise, that was 13 or 14-bytes.
In other words, each group of 8-bits.
And essentially, older hardware sometimes
would use different groupings of these.
So they might have had like, 7-bits was
kind of the fundamental thing, or 6-bits.
But these days it's like,
yeah, 8-bits is the way to go.
And we can decide that we want
to interpret these bytes as, for
example, entire numbers rather
than just ones and zeros.
So for example,
if you have eight zeros in a row and.
That, as you might expect,
is interpreted as the number 0.
There's nothing but 0s in there.
This one is 0 plus 2 to the 0.
This is 0 plus 2 to the 1, and
this is 0 plus 2 to the 1 plus 2 to the 0.
So what do I mean by that?
Essentially, this is
how base 2 math works.
Now, we as humans, I'm assuming because
we have 10 fingers and it's easy for
counting.
We like base 10 [LAUGH].
That's like kind of what
we tend to go with.
Decimal meaning, base 10, and
this is binary meaning base 2.
So, essentially in base 2 numbers, you
have actually the same kind of rules that
you do in base 10, where the right most
digit essentially corresponds to it's,
like in this case, it's either 0 or 1.
But in base 10, this'll be 0,
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.
And then, if you go over one digit,
that's gonna be plus 10 to the 1 or
something like that.
So essentially,
the way that you can convert these
to decimal is to say all right.
I've got a 1 here and
that 1 is all the way to the right.
It's the rightmost digit of the thing.
So that means we're gonna
add 2 to the 0 to that.
And here we have it,
it's scooted over one more.
That's gonna be 2 to the 1.
And here we have both of them set,
the rightmost and
the second rightmost being 1.
So that's gonna be 2 to
the 1 plus 2 to the 0.
So this works out to be 0,
1, 2, and 3 in decimal.
So if you see this bit pattern of all
0s followed by 2, 1s at the very end,
that corresponds to decimal number 3.
This one corresponds to
the decimal number 2, and
this one corresponds to
the decimal number 1.
That's essentially what we get when
we're talking about converting bits
from decimal to binary and back.
You can memorize these rules and
apply them yourself if you want.
It's usually not necessary unless
you're doing something really,
really fancy in terms of
performance optimization.
We will do a tiny bit of stuff with
bits [LAUGH] towards the very end of
the workshop, but that's about it.
But if you're curious and
you wanna convert these things,
there's websites where you can just
be like, give me a decimal number and
I'll give you the binary out
the other side, or vice versa.
Give me a binary number and
I'll give you the decimal equivalent.
So essentially, it's as simple as that.
These are 1s and 0s, and that's a base
2 system rather than a base 10 system.
Now, the reason I mention
all this is again,
the important part here is that in memory,
the hardware does not care.
These are all user space,
like programmer concepts that we
are imposing on top of the hardware.
We've decided to Interpret these 1s and
0s in this way.
This is not something the hardware
is sort of like innately requires,
other than the fact that it does have
a number of conveniences if you're
working in terms of bytes or
in terms of other sizes of integers.
Just to go a little bit further with this.
So if you had like, to continue
the pattern, like you have two 0s and
then a 1, that's gonna be a 4.
If you have another one at the very end
on top of that, that's gonna be a 5.
And then 6 is like, moving over one digit.
Seven is three 1s, and
then eight is 1 over like that.
So just like in base 10,
as you keep adding more and more digits,
like this is kind of the equivalent
of like 999 in decimal.
And then once you add one more,
it's like, these are all at
their maximum possible value.
So we flip over to one more.
We add one more digit over
in the next column, over and
then reset the others to 0.
So it's the same kind of
stuff you'd see in base 10,
just the maximum number is 1 instead of 9.
All right, now, I did wanna note, though,
that you can take these same 1s and 0s,
and you can choose to interpret
them in different ways.
For example, instead of interpreting
them in groups of eight,
where we have like, this is the number 0.
This is the number 1.
This is 2, and this is 3.
We can say, okay, I'm actually gonna take
these same exact pattern of 1s and 0s and
I'm gonna chop it up differently.
And I'm gonna say, well, actually,
I wanna chop it right in the middle here.
Instead of having groups of 8,
I'm gonna have like groups of 16 and
this one is gonna be 1, and
then this one's gonna be,1027.
Or chop it up in the middle here, and
say sorry, and not chop up at all, and
just say, this is one gigantic number.
And so this, this whole thing is like,
this one right here gives us 131072,
this one gives us 1024, and
this, two 1s at the end give us 3,
just like they did back up here.
And now we have some gigantic integer.
So this is a way that you can take
exactly the same piece of memory and
represents it in multiple different ways.
And one of the things we're gonna see
over the course of the workshop is that,
this is actually a thing that we do in C.
The term is casting, meaning that
you take the same exact memory and
you decide to interpret
it in a different way.
So this right here would be interpreting
this as an array of 4-bytes, 1, 2, 3,
4-bytes, all side by side
next to each other in memory.
This would be an array of two integers
that are each 16-bit integers.
And this would be one 32-bit integer
that's not even an array at all.
So same memory, but
different ways to interpret it.
The main takeaway here is that
we decide how to interpret
memory as the programmers.
And in C, this is a very,
very important part of,
doing C is deciding how we
want to interpret that memory.